---
title: A Return
date: 2016-01-27 23:10 UTC
tags: Life, Writing
---

Hey, look at this, I have a blog! My, and it has been such a very long time since
I updated it. Well, perhaps I ought to give you all (is anyone actually reading this?) an
update of where life has lead me since I last posted.

Before I do however, I should mention, I intend to use this blog more often moving forward. I
also plan on stepping outside the bounds of what I've previously written about. Looking back, most
of my posts are about programming, and read like how-to manuals for different tech.
This is great on occasion, the problem is I don't particularly enjoy writing how-to manuals, and
thus, I end up falling off the wagon. With that in mind, I hope to have more fun with this.

So what might I end up writing about here? Well, as I'm still employed full-time as a software
engineer, I imagine programming will still come up regularly. However, there are many other dimensions
of life as a millennial in Denver worth exploring, and I'd like to do so.

Alright, now you know why I've returned! So, where am I in life at the moment?

As of six months ago, I became a new homeowner! This has been a whole new kind of adventure for me,
as I navigate the realities of home mortgages, neighborhood associations, and keeping the lawn looking
tidy. While there have been a few headaches along the way, Denver is a great place to own a home right
now, as our market is booming, so I've enjoyed the process.

Also, I started a new job, at a company here in Denver, though since I've been away from this so long,
the job hardly qualifies as new. I'm working for Closely, spending most of my time on our Web Application,
and our iOS application. Essentially, we put social media management within reach of small business owners,
who otherwise might not be able to manage it. We aggregate interactions from the various social media channels onto
a single interface, making it easy for the small business owner to get a bird's eye view of what people
are saying about them online. We call it <a href='https://my.perchapp.com' target='_blank'>Perch</a>.

I would be remiss if I didn't also mention the lady who's become such a big part of my life over the last
year as well. Mary is as smart as she is beautiful, and it's a pleasure having her around. Girlfriends
are awesome. We recently took a trip together up the historic California 1, an adventure I'd had on my
bucket list for quite some time. We started in San Diego, and gradually made our way to Portland over the
course of 10 days. If I were to do it again, I'd make it 20 days.

Yes, many other things happened in the year since I've last posted here, but these highlights
will do for now. I'm cooking up a list of topics to write about, hopefully 2016 will see a much more active
blog!
